>> Steve Kinney: So let's say again,
every app is really a to do list.
But theoretically, this is for
if we wanted to have a,
I like to call it,
sometimes just a single input form field.
Like again, submit message one input,
submit, so on and so forth.
And so that one really doesn't
like it when I get real small,
and I get big again.
So this is kind of what we start out
with here, and we wanna kind of create
the thing of an input field that
then has a button inside of it.
So it's like one unit.
You might also see this as like,
it's like an input field and
then the button's kind
of attached on the end.
That also could work.
It's honestly a styling
thing at that point,
maybe we'll try both of which you'll.
If I feel spicy and
still good on time, we'll see.
Okay, so what we can do is point.
Now the fact that
the label has no styling.
And this is when I warned you in
the beginning of the workshop,
it might be really tempting to open
up that base layer and be like,
why aren't all my buttons on all my inputs
to have borders and all of these things?
And then you will regret it.
Ask me how I know.
Because I too, if you thought that in the
beginning, I too was you at one point, and
now I am no longer you.
So in this case,
what we're going to go for
is we're going to look at
a few different things, right?
You're like,
what if I don't want to show a label?
What if I just want an input field?
I wanna say what it is in the placeholder.
You can do that, but that's mean.
I mean, you can play around with some
aria labeledby things and so on and so
forth, but generally speaking,
the label is useful for
screen readers to announce what it is.
So let's say we don't want
to show the label at all.
I can use this tailwind
class called SRO only,
which is screen reader only, right?
You say, but it's still here.
Because I put in the for
field, not the class.
If you don't type it in the right place,
it doesn't work.
SR only.
So it's vanished, but it's not, right?
SR only basically keeps it
where it was on the page, but
puts it off of the page effectively and
hides it.
A screen reader will still announce
the label of this as like,
we should really do this as new task,
we're being.
So if they use a screen reader,
and they navigate over,
there's still a label in DOM.
But visually, for anyone looking at the
page, they don't see it anymore, right?
So it's a way to kind of get
some accessibility, niceness.
And again,
could you write that class yourself?
Yes.
Do you want to?
No, so
it kind of just moves it out of the way.
So now what we wanna do is we're
gonna kind of style the form a little
bit to look like we had
with an input field before.
So we'll say class and
we're going to say, I don't know,
we'll give it a outline-outline-slate 600.
Okay, we're getting there.
So we give it some padding on the x
axis of 3, some padding on the y.
1.5.
All right, all right.
We're going to accidentally learn
a little bit more about flexbox in
a second here because I
got excited to do this.
And we'll then talk a little bit
more of flexbox in a second.
Then we'll style the button.
Theoretically, we could have used any of
those other buttons we had before, but
we'll just bring this in real quick and
we'll give it a bg.
We did blue buttons the whole time,
doing a purple button.
PX, I don't know, 3.
Again, we decided we're team rounded,
if I'm not mistaken.
Cool, and we'll give it a text of white.
Spell white correctly.
There we go.
The next thing we do is we
will make this a flexbox.
We'll talk a little bit
more flexbox in a second.
We'll say flex and we'll say
that the input field gets to take up
more space and we'll make this.
I forgot we're team rounded.
I just went through, like I said before,
I went through the great unrounding
in the UI that I worked on.
And so now I have to remember
that we like rounded.
I like rounded too, to be clear.
Okay, it looks like it,
but like ew, right?
And would like to do all that.
I would like basically to take the fact
that it looks like this is the input field
overall and make it behave like that.
So what I could do in this case
is we do need to remove that.
I think I can just do outline.
None.
We'll find out together.
Okay.
But now there's still no visual feedback.
There's no focus, there's nothing.
So what we'll do here
is we'll say outline.
And again, if you wanted to keep the
outline, but then put a ring around it.
That's where the fact that rings
still exist could be helpful.
So let's actually do that.
We'll say ring two and
we'll say ring purple.
So now we get a little focus state there.
That's nice.
I guess I could have changed
the outline color too.
That would have worked but now I get both.
Cool, so now it looks but
it works for focus.
But what if we wanted to do that invalid
valid kind of thing as well, right?
That's where has becomes interesting
because it can then query about the input
inside.
So we could do something
like has invalid ring-red 600,
do has user invalid, and
we'll make this required.
Let's just go to regular invalid for
a second.
Let's see what happens when I get fancy.
Let's try it with the outline for
a second.
Watch this as I pick too.
Darker red.
Not totally sure as I wing it on that one.
If you put the required on the label
it's not going to do anything.
Just FYI, in case you're wondering.
All right, there we go.
I'm not insane,
I'm just in a very zoomed in window.
Cool, cool, cool.
So we'll do the has user invalid.
So now they go in, they leave.
Maybe it doesn't work on required,
but yeah, we can start to
especially make this an email.
We can see it super easily.
They go in, they leave,
they type in some bs, they leave.
Now it's red.
But now we have what looks like
an input field with a button
inside just styled by
a mixture of has focus within.
All of these tools come together to
make some of those more polished and
professional looking UI components
that might have taken a while.
Very quick and easy to the point where
someone can live code on a zoomed in
screen in front of friends
while also talking and
whip one up fairly quickly and elegantly.